The night before, I dreamed again of Ellie. As a refresher, or to new readers, she was my childhood friend, who also happened to be a ghost. She haunted my house, and we played a lot together. She helped me learn almost everything I know about ghosts, and I was even able to help her pass. I was able to get her into such a calm and peaceful state that I think her brainwaves fell out of sync with the surrounding electricity, and her imprint vanished. I’d like to think it was peaceful, and she said it was what she wanted. Even so, I still had images and memories in her mind when I regarded the sign posted at the front of the crumbling house:

後生からアドバイス: Advice from the Afterlife

TEMPORARILY CLOSED

With a shrug, I used the key I was given, unlocked the door, double checked my equipment and Ghost-Away!TM helmet, and stepped inside.

I met what seemed to be an old Japanese man with long, frizzy white hair and a fading yellow kimono sitting cross legged on the floor. He looked up and said, “Sorry, we are closed.”

“I’m not a customer,” I said.

The man raised a white bushy eyebrow. “Oh? You can hear me? Can you see me?”

I nodded. “Yes to both. Pleased to meet you, I am Tanaka Koki.”

The man dipped his head in turn. “I am Kobayashi Jun. What can I do for you? Are you seeking advice? Spurned lover, family drama, or financial trouble?”

I shook my head. “Nothing of the sort. In fact, I think I’ve already finished what I came here to do.”

“And what was that?”

“Well, assess any potential ghosts in this facility, which would be you. Are there any other ghosts here?”

“No, just me. And what is the result of your assessment?”

I gave a tilt of the head. “Well, I can clearly see that you are powerful and sentient, capable of responding to new stimuli, and that you are self aware of the situation. Do you know what day today is?”

Jun looked up in quiet pensive thought. “Well, Nobu hasn’t been here in a few days, and last saw him late November. You must know him, if he gave you keys. I would say that it is mid December, in the 2nd year of the new Reiwa Period.”

“Close, it is actually Christmas Day, December 25th.”

Jun raised his eyebrow again. “Oh! Well. Merry Christmas, is what they say, right? We didn’t really celebrate Christmas in my day, but I’ve heard of the event. Date nights, fried chicken, and whatnot.”

“In America, where I grew up, it’s a big thing. Giving presents, singing carols. and spending time with family.”

“Do you miss them?”

I know at that moment, I should have thought about my mom, but an image of Ellie came up. She would often be right there when I woke up on Christmas mornings, ready to run down with me so we could look at the presents. One year, my mom actually indulged my “imaginary friend” and put a present out for her, which happened to be a Shogi board. She said it was the best Christmas she ever had.

“Yes, of course,” I said, then changed the subject. “Unfortunately, I don’t think you will be working with Nobu any longer. He filed for bankruptcy and sold this property to the bank. I am here as a legal process, where any property suspected of ghostly activity must be assessed by a ghost inspector, aka me.

“From my assessment, it’s pretty easy to classify you as a Class 4 ghost, which gives you the same rights and protections in Japan as any other human being. That continues the right to continue existing, which means we will install a backup generator on the property to ensure that the surrounding electricity, which keeps you alive, never goes out.”

I took out a couple pieces of paper, a form of one-sided deconstructed brochure that would be legible without having to turn it over. In the big letters, the first page said. “Congratulations, you’re Class 4! What now?” I put them on the ground in front of Jun’s astonished face.

”Nobu gone?… Bankruptcy… He never said a word…” Jun repeated, more to himself than me I think. He continued, “So that means our advice business is over?”

I nodded, “Yes, unfortunately, though you can appeal to the bank, specifically Yotsui Sumitomo, as to the specific function of this property. They are usually willing to work with harmless ghosts for continued benefit, especially if they can make a business out of it. I can negotiate on your behalf.”

I handed him a small flat device with a simple red light on it. I said, “If you close the circuit on this, you can light up the red light, and I will get a text saying that you need something. I will come over as quickly as possible, or send somebody to announce when I can arrive. Is there anything I can do for you now?”

Jun pondered for a moment, seemingly still taking in all of the new information. He hesitatingly held out his hand and concentrated. The red light it up, and I felt a buzz in my phone. I showed him the text: “Request from Jun at Chiyoda-ku XXXXXX”

Jun nodded slowly. “Thank you for the information and the help. I am sad to never see Nobu again, he was a dear friend, but it seems that there is a silver lining. In return for your services, would you like some advice? A Christmas present, if you will. It’s the only thing I can give.”

I shook my head. “No thank you, but I appreciate the offer.”

Jun said, “It’s more than just my years of experience. I am able to… see inside your mind, if I have your permission. Total empathic connection. I can truly experience your mindstate, your memories, your experiences, and assess your situation. From there, I can give _truly_ useful advice.”

I raised my eyebrow. I knew that ghosts were sometimes capable of manipulating living beings’ senses and emotions, but I had never heard of something like that. It intrigued me.

”Okay,” I said, “Let’s give it a shot.”

Jun extended his hand and slowly, very carefully, brought it to my head. I didn’t know what to expect, but I just felt a slight fuzziness, like I had a couple drinks. After a second, it was gone. Jun’s expression changed completely to something deeper and darker.

”Go upstairs,” he said, “go into the first room on the right, and take the first thing you see on the shelf. That is my Christmas present to you.”

Tentatively, I looked at the thin, steep wooden stairs leading upward. I began to climb. The walls were the same off-white as they were downstairs. I walked into the first room on the right, and, on a shelf, I saw a small shrine dedicated to Jun. At the front was a tiny white urn. With a look of puzzlement, I took the urn and brought it downstairs.

”You are giving me your ashes?” I asked.

Jun shrugged. “There are no ashes in there. There was not enough of my body left to do a proper cremation, so it’s empty. You can use it for Ellie, if you wish.”

That gave me more puzzlement. I raised an eyebrow. “Ellie? Why?”

“Something to remember her by,” he said. ”Something physical, to help you with your mourning.”

I scoffed, “Mourning? No, I don’t think so. I never knew her when she was alive, so I can’t mourn her.”

”You can mourn for more than just the passing of a living being. Ellie was a dear friend of yours, and now she is gone forever. You are mourning her.”

I paused, speechless. I didn’t know what to say. It was true that I missed her dearly, but I was happy to help her pass, but I still thought about her all the time and regretted not doing more with her and not spending more time with her. I should’ve been nicer. I should’ve given her a million Christmas presents. Why did I get so many and she only ever got a Shogi board?

Was this what mourning felt like?

I clutched Jun’s urn, or Ellie’s urn, closer to my stomach. I tried to think of her in there, or at least a part of her in there. It was all symbolic, but perhaps I could build a shrine for Ellie. It’s funny, I’m one of the few people who have talked to beings after they pass, and yet I still don’t know where Ellie went. Did she go anywhere?

”Thank you,” I said, more choked up than I expected. I felt a lump in my throat, but I pushed on. “I’ll be in touch. Merry Christmas.”

”Merry Christmas,” Jun said with a small smile.

I opened the door and stepped out into the chilly air.
